---
title: Constitution
---

import { Declaration } from "@/components/mdx/constitution/declaration";
import { Ins, InsBlock } from "@/components/mdx/constitution/ins";

The Secretary shall retain each member’s signed declaration.

Amendments ratified at the EGM (25 Feb 2019, 4 Jun 2019) are
<Ins set={1}>highlighted</Ins>.

Amendments ratified at the AGM on 24 Oct 2023 are <Ins set={2}>highlighted in a
different colour</Ins>.

## 1. Name

The club shall be known as the Sudbury Rowing Club hereinafter referred to as
“the club”. The Club colours shall be Oxford Blue and White

## 2. Objectives

The object of the club is to provide facilities for and promote participation of
the whole community in the sport of rowing.

## 3. Property of the Club

All freehold land and buildings belonging to the Club shall be vested in
Trustees and held in trust for the members of the Club in accordance with the
constitution of the Club. The Trustees shall deal with such property as the
committee directs. Trustees shall be elected from time to time by simple
majority vote in a General Meeting.

## 4. Membership

The club is an open membership club.

### Classes of Membership

#### Voting members

- Full Members (persons over the age of 18 years old):
  - rowing
  - non rowing
- Family Members<br /> The spouse and/or children, under 18, of a full member.
- Junior Members<br /> Persons under the age of 18 years old on 1st September of
  the current rowing year (The rowing year running from 1st September to 31st
  August).

#### Non Voting members

- Part time student members<br /> Those who only row part of the year either
  holiday or term
- Associate/Social (Friends of SRC)<br /> Do not have access to or use of club
  boats or members training equipment (including boats) and do not have voting
  rights.

### Election of Membership

Membership of the Club shall be open to anyone interested in the sport of rowing
on application, regardless of sex, age, disability, ethnicity, nationality,
sexual orientation, religion or other beliefs. However, limitation of membership
according to available facilities is allowable on a non-discriminatory basis.

The Club may have different classes of membership and subscription on a
non-discriminatory and fair basis. The Club will keep subscriptions at levels
that will not pose a significant obstacle to people participating.

Applicants for membership and members renewing their membership, will abide by
the Rules and Regulations of the Club, of British Rowing, and the sport of
rowing.

If it is considered by the Club committee that the granting or renewal of
membership would be detrimental to the aims and objectives of the Club, by
virtue of conduct or character likely to bring the Club or the sport of rowing
into disrepute or for some other similar good cause, the Club committee shall be
entitled to refuse or withdraw such membership. In doing so the committee shall
provide full reasons for their decision, upon written request, and grant a right
of appeal to the members.

### Restriction

A person who has been expelled from, or refused membership of British Rowing,
shall not be eligible for membership.

## 5. Subscription

The rates of subscription shall be determined by the members in General Meeting
and shall be due on election and, thereafter, on or before 1st November in each
year.

## 6. Cessation of Membership

Any member may resign by giving one month’s clear notice in writing to the
Secretary; any fees already paid will not be refunded.

Any member violating any of the rules or regulations of the Club or being
adjudged guilty of unsatisfactory conduct may, by resolution of the Committee,
be suspended or expelled. In doing this the committee shall provide full reasons
for their decision, upon written request, and grant a right of appeal to the
members.

A member shall be deemed to have resigned from the Club if, after due notice in
writing, they have not paid, or set up a direct debit by 1st January the annual
subscription which became due on 1st November.

## 7. Equal Opportunities Policy

The Club will ensure that the talents and resources of all members are utilised
to the full and that no member receives less favourable treatment on the grounds
of gender, disability, marital status, creed, social class, ethnicity, age or
sexual orientation.

<InsBlock set={1}>
## 8. Codes of Conduct

The Club adopts the British Rowing Codes of Conduct, to which all members must
adhere. Members will be required to sign a declaration to that effect.

</InsBlock>

<InsBlock set={2}>
## 9. Anti-Bullying Policy

The club adopts the British Rowing Anti-bullying Policy, and all members are
required to behave with care and courtesy to others, in all circumstances and at
all times.

</InsBlock>

## 10. Grievance and Disciplinary Procedures

An individual or member with a complaint about treatment by the Club should set
out their grievance, in the first instance to the Club Chairman. The Club will
seek to deal with complaints in a fair and timely manner <Ins set={2}>and will
adopt and follow the British Rowing Grievance and Disciplinary Policy</Ins>.

## 11. Child Protection Procedures

The Club accepts the policy and procedures relating to Child Protection and the
protection of Vulnerable Adults, as set out by British Rowing, and requires all
members to accept them as a condition of membership.

## 12. Safety

The club activities will comply with the Water Safety Code contained in the
rules of British Rowing and the Water Safety Code Guidance Notes as published by
British Rowing.

The Committee shall appoint a member to act as Safety Adviser whose duty it will
be to understand the requirements of the British Rowing Code of Practice for
Water Safety and advise on their prominent display, their observation and their
implementation at all times.

## 13. Club President

The incoming Mayor of Sudbury shall be invited each year to become the Club
president. The Secretary shall send a letter to the Town Clerk each year with
the invitation. Vice-Presidents will be elected annually at the A.G.M.

## 14. Disqualification from Holding Office

Only members entitled to vote are eligible to hold office.

Any member who is under the age of 16 years, shall not be eligible for election
to the Committee of the Club.

## 15. Committee

The Committee shall conduct the affairs of the Club as a whole and shall consist
of a Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer, and other Officers and committee members as
deemed necessary.

<InsBlock set={1}>

Nominations for the position of Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer, Captain and
other officers shall be put forward by two other members, together with a signed
personal statement, to the Secretary at least 8 days prior to a general meeting.

The Secretary will publish all nominations and statements at least 7 days prior
to the meeting.

Only when no nominations are received for a post 8 days prior to the meeting can
nominations be presented at that meeting.

</InsBlock>

If required, the Committee shall elect a Vice-Chairman from among its number.

<InsBlock set={1}>
The term of office for Chairman, Secretary, Treasurer and Captain shall be for
one year, and members shall be eligible for re-election in that current post for
a maximum of five consecutive terms.

The term of office for other offices shall be for one year, and members shall be
eligible for re-election.

</InsBlock>

## 16. Club Committee

The Committee is responsible for the general conduct of the Club’s business and
activities.

The Committee shall meet at regular intervals during the year, as required by
the business to be transacted.

Special meetings of the Committee shall be called by the Secretary on
instructions from the Chairman, or not less than three committee members.

A quorum shall consist of not less than 5 members. Two of whom must be
identified under section 17.

In the case of casual vacancy among the Committee, the remainder of the
Committee shall be entitled to appoint another eligible person to act until the
next AGM.

## 17. Duties of Committee

Chairman: The Chairman (or Chair) will preside at all General meetings of the
Club and at all meetings of the Committee, and shall be responsible for guiding
the activities of the club in accordance with its general policy as expressed by
the majority of its members. The Chairman shall represent or arrange for the
representation of the Club at British Rowing regional level and at meetings of
other organisations. The Chairman shall ex officio be a member of any other
committee of the Club.

Captain: The Captain will be responsible for training, coaching and
representation of the Club in competitions.

Secretary: The Secretary will be responsible for the organisation of meetings of
the Committee and of the Club, and the recording of minutes relating to such
meetings and all correspondence relating to the general business of the Club.

Treasurer: The Treasurer will be responsible for the collection and disbursement
of all monies belonging to the Club and will keep proper accounting records of
all such transactions. He or she will present to the members at the AGM a
balance sheet and income and expenditure account showing the Club’s financial
position and the results of its transactions for the year. The transactions of
the Club will be conducted through a bank account and will require the
signatures, or appropriate electronic authorisationsAmendment ratified in2019 of
any 2 of 3 members of the Committee who have been designated for the purpose.

## 18. Trustees

Trustees of the club shall be appointed, there being no less than 5, in whom the
assets of the club i.e. land and property shall be invested. Their liability in
law shall not extend further than the assets of the club from time to time
invested in them. Trustees are:

- Adrian Ablitt
- Andrew Blit
- Patricia Fincham
- Antony Moule
- Simon White

## 19. General Meetings

An Annual General Meeting shall be held in the October of each year. There shall
be laid before the meeting a statement of accounts made up to the 30th September
which immediately precedes the meeting.

An Extraordinary General Meeting shall be called on the instructions of a simple
majority of the Committee, or on a requisition signed by not less than 10% of
the members of the Club entitled to vote.

Not less than 21 days clear notice shall be given, specifying to all members the
time and business of the General Meeting.

Non-committee motions for discussion at Annual General Meetings, shall be lodged
with the Secretary at least 30 days preceding the AGM, and be signed by 5
members entitled to vote.

At any General Meeting, a resolution put to the vote of the Meeting shall be
decided by a show of hands, of those entitled to vote, except when more than one
nomination has been received for a position on the Committee, in which case
voting will be by secret ballot.

At all General Meetings the Chairman or President will preside or in his/her
absence the voting members present shall elect a Chairman for the meeting.

At all General Meetings not less than 20% of the members of the Club entitled to
vote shall constitute a quorum.

### Absences of Quorum

If after half an hour from the time appointed for the meeting, a quorum is not
present, the Meeting, if called at the request of the members, shall be
dissolved. In any other case, the Meeting shall be adjourned until a time and
place to be fixed by the Committee. If a quorum is not present within half an
hour from the time appointed for an Adjourned Meeting, the members present shall
be a quorum.

### Accidental Omission

Accidental Omission to give notice of a meeting to, or the non-receipt of notice
of, a meeting by any member shall not invalidate the proceedings of a meeting.

## 20. Liability

The General Committee shall manage the affairs of the Club. Financial or legal
liability incurred in the rightful and proper exercise of their office shall
not, however, be the personal liability of the Committee, but shall be the
responsibility of the Club as a whole.

## 21. Alteration of Constitution

This constitution shall not be altered, amended or rescinded except by a General
Meeting of the Club.

A resolution to alter, amend or rescind the constitution must be passed by at
least 75% of the members present at the General Meeting.

## 22. Auditor

Every Annual General Meeting shall appoint an Auditor who shall at the
conclusion of the next financial year examine the accounting records of the
Club, and report to the members on the income and expenditure accounts and
balance sheet that are presented to the next AGM.

## 23. Distribution of Surplus Funds

In no circumstances can the club funds be distributed to members, and any
profits earned shall be used in furthering the objects of the Club.

## 24. Termination

The Club shall not terminate except by a resolution of a Special General Meeting
convened for the purpose and, in such an event, any surplus assets shall be
handed over to another registered CASC, a registered charity or the sport’s
governing body as agreed by the meeting which formally terminates the Club, for
use by them in community-related sports.

## 25. Power of Decision

The Committee shall deal with any and all matters not provided for in this
constitution, including its interpretation. The Committee’s decision in these
matters shall be final.

## 26. Declaration

Each member upon joining shall sign the following declaration:

<Declaration />
