---
title: Privacy Policy
---

This website is operated by Sudbury Rowing Club, whose registered address is
Sudbury Rowing Club, Quay Lane, Sudbury CO10 2AN. ("We") are committed to
protecting and preserving the privacy of our visitors when visiting our site or
communicating electronically with us.

This policy sets out how we process any personal data we collect from you or
that you provide to us through our website. We confirm that we will keep your
information secure and that we will comply fully with all applicable UK Data
Protection legislation and regulations.

## Types of information we may collect from you

We may collect, store and use the following kinds of personal information about
individuals who visit and use our website:

### Information you supply to us

You may supply us with information about you by filling in forms on our website.
This includes information you provide when you submit a contact or application
form. The information you give us may include your name, address, email address,
phone number, date of birth, occupation, medical information, your emergency
contact's contact details and your rowing aspirations/history.

### Information our website automatically collects about you

We may automatically collect information including the following:

- Technical information, including a truncated and anonymised version of your
  Internet protocol (IP) address, browser type and version, operating system and
  platform
- Information about your visit, including what pages you visit, how long you are
  on the site, how you got to the site (including date and time); page response
  times, length of visit, what you click on, documents downloaded and download
  errors

## Cookies

We use a single cookie to help us understand how people use our website and
identify any technical issues that need fixing. This analytics cookie doesn't
collect any personal information that could identify you, but it does give us
insights into which pages people visit, how they use our site, and any errors
they encounter. This helps us improve our website and fix problems quickly.

| Provider                        | Purpose                                                                                                                                                                                                                                       | Duration | Type        |
| ------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------- | ----------- |
| [PostHog](https://posthog.com/) | Logging and analytics | 365 days | Third-party |

## How we may use the information we collect

### Information you supply to us

We will use this information to provide you with information and/or services
that you request from us.

### Information we automatically collect about you

Any information automatically collected is used to:

- Administer our site including troubleshooting and statistical purposes
- Improve our site to ensure that content is presented in the most effective
  manner for you and for your computer
- Security and debugging as part of our efforts to keep our site safe and secure

This information will be collected anonymously and will not be linked to
information that identifies you as an individual.

## Disclosure of your information

Any information you provide to us will be emailed directly to us.

We do not rent, sell or share personal information about you with other people
or non-affiliated companies.

We will use all reasonable efforts to ensure that your personal data is not
disclosed to regional/national institutions and authorities, unless required by
law or other regulations.

Unfortunately, the transmission of information via the internet is not
completely secure. Although we will do our best to protect your personal data,
we cannot guarantee the security of your data transmitted to our site; any
transmission is at your own risk. Once we have received your information, we
will use strict procedures and security features to try to prevent unauthorised
access.

## Third party links

Our site may contain links to and from third party websites. If you follow a
link to any of these websites, please note that these websites have their own
privacy policies and that we do not accept any responsibility or liability for
these policies. Please check these policies before you submit any personal data
to these websites.

## Your rights â€” access to your personal data

You have the right to ensure that your personal data is being processed lawfully
("Subject Access Right"). Your subject access right can be exercised in
accordance with data protection laws and regulations. Any subject access request
must be made in writing to Sudbury Rowing Club, Quay Lane, Sudbury CO10 2AN. We
will provide your personal data to you within the statutory time frames. To
enable us to trace any of your personal data that we may be holding, we may need
to request further information from you. If you have a complaint about how we
have used your information, you have the right to complain to the Information
Commissioner's Office (ICO).

## Changes to our privacy policy

Any changes we may make to our privacy policy in the future will be posted on
this page and, where appropriate, notified to you by e-mail. Please check back
frequently to see any updates or changes to our privacy policy.

## Contact

Questions, comments and requests regarding this privacy policy are welcomed and
should be addressed to Sudbury Rowing Club, Quay Lane, Sudbury CO10 2AN.
